David Schaich (he): Okay, everything seems to be
David Schaich (he): up and running, and in focus.  We have some folks online, some in the room.
David Schaich (he): So let's get underway with
David Schaich (he): the Tuesday-afternoon
David Schaich (he): lecture, for
David Schaich (he): which I have a 6-digit code for you:
David Schaich (he): 7,
David Schaich (he): 3, 6,
David Schaich (he): 1, 2, 7.
David Schaich (he): I can't seem to turn that bar off,
David Schaich (he): but hopefully it will go away at some point.
David Schaich (he): What we've been doing so far this week,
after
David Schaich (he): looking at the basic results for ideal gases yesterday, we introduced the mixing entropy
David Schaich (he): that's related to reversible and irreversible processes.
David Schaich (he): We will look at that a bit more in the
David Schaich (he): tutorial on Thursday morning. Be able to
David Schaich (he): a simplified calculation of
David Schaich (he): the entropy of the final system. I will see the system after it's been re separated and confirmed the second.
David Schaich (he): We just you have a possibility argument for that yesterday
David Schaich (he): actually carry out that calculation
David Schaich (he): as the tutorial activity for this week. And then.
David Schaich (he): when we wrapped up yesterday was introducing the for sure.
David Schaich (he): Yeah. Statistical system and
David Schaich (he): negative of the responses control internal energy. We change in the world if they constant entropy and then connecting that to
mechanical work.
David Schaich (he): I can me that
David Schaich (he): to such a change in the volume all the way.
David Schaich (he): see this illustration that what? That's a
David Schaich (he): external force that changes the volume in which an ideal gas is being held.
David Schaich (he): Change that volume is negative Times. The area of the side of the container that moves it's considered a piston that can be moved by.
David Schaich (he): and the what yes is done by this is the in a product of yeah force
David Schaich (he): homes. The
David Schaich (he): displacement change.
the location that this
David Schaich (he): at times deal to X.
David Schaich (he): And this is then, we
David Schaich (he): resulting change in the energy.
David Schaich (he): the internal energy, specifically of this statistical system due to
David Schaich (he): the application of the sport. So we saw in this example.
David Schaich (he): The pressure is that negative change? Yeah. Internal. divided by the A. Delta X. So getting back to just
David Schaich (he): the usual force per unit area. You may well have it seen before.
David Schaich (he): which
David Schaich (he): also, right
David Schaich (he): hopefully, the microscopic change in volume. So that's
David Schaich (he): where we at
David Schaich (he): wrapped up yesterday morning. Are there any questions about
David Schaich (he): the ideal gas? It's mixing entropy? What
David Schaich (he): we got to with the pressure before we go on.
David Schaich (he): how this pressure can be used to do work for
David Schaich (he): not seeing any. Let's go ahead. And this rearrange this expression that we have here from simple consideration i'm back in.
David Schaich (he): You're on.
David Schaich (he): So here
David Schaich (he): the work does that change?
David Schaich (he): You control energy.
David Schaich (he): and also given by the negative of Pressure Times
David Schaich (he): a change in the volume where
David Schaich (he): we have assume the
David Schaich (he): take this, derivative giving us the pressure.
David Schaich (he): energy response with a cost of entropy.
David Schaich (he): It is also possible for this internal energy. You change
David Schaich (he): you to a change in the entropy.
David Schaich (he): so that in general
David Schaich (he): it's going to be the work that is done that due to some external force. What
David Schaich (he): other possible contributions turn to consider into course.
David Schaich (he): for now you can make the point that
David Schaich (he): this expression here work is the change in energy. It was only when the entropy
David Schaich (he): it's.
David Schaich (he): whereas the remainder of the employee.
David Schaich (he): even though we derive from the special case, it turns out to be in general results
David Schaich (he): that the identification of the work, as the negative of the pressure at times
David Schaich (he): change in the volume
David Schaich (he): is a relation that holds whether or not the entropy is fixed.
David Schaich (he): Go on and change that Delta volume to
David Schaich (he): so the
David Schaich (he): So this is
David Schaich (he): response which we can generalize
David Schaich (he): to a
David Schaich (he): relation governing the amount of work that corresponds to some macroscopic change
David Schaich (he): in the volume
David Schaich (he): so integrated from some initial value of the volume to some
David Schaich (he): okay
David Schaich (he): negative Pressure Times
accessible volume element.
David Schaich (he): We have to note that the pressure. Here. you shouldn't
David Schaich (he): think of it in general as a function of that home.
David Schaich (he): Let me know if you clear out the 3. It gets too bad as the
David Schaich (he): all right at the moment.
David Schaich (he): If we recall here equation of state for ideal gas. we also derive yesterday. Thank you.
David Schaich (he): An expression for yeah.
David Schaich (he): Pressure is the number of particles times their temperature divided by the volume. So, as the one changes along this integral, the pressure itself can be expected to change in jail.
David Schaich (he): One other aspect of this
David Schaich (he): work that we've defined here in the context of a statistical system that we should notice is
David Schaich (he): at negative sign. You actually so in the context of this. just an example that I want to zoom out to
that on
David Schaich (he): reject it. that
David Schaich (he): an increase in energy correspond to a decrease in the volume.
David Schaich (he): So that is
David Schaich (he): a way to remember it. That negative sign out from. and more generally.
David Schaich (he): when the work is positive.
David Schaich (he): That means that it is
David Schaich (he): corresponding to some process that increases the eternal energy of the so it is being done.
David Schaich (he): i'm. On the gas, so on the system
David Schaich (he): by the rest of the university surroundings
David Schaich (he): of that system. This
David Schaich (he): raises the energy
David Schaich (he): internal energy specifically. and in the opposite case we have
David Schaich (he): a amount of work that is less than 0. For instance, the change in volume is positive, the gas is expanding.
David Schaich (he): and that corresponds to
David Schaich (he): by the gas
David Schaich (he): which reduces the
David Schaich (he): i'm out of internal energy
David Schaich (he): being sorted in that guess.
David Schaich (he): There's a we can turn now to the more
David Schaich (he): part of possible
David Schaich (he): ways to change the internal energy. In addition to just doing work and changing the volume by applying
David Schaich (he): okay. extracting an external force.
David Schaich (he): So for you
David Schaich (he): consider how
David Schaich (he): internal energy of the gas
David Schaich (he): you want to set this up by keeping the rolling constant That's guarantees that
David Schaich (he): no work is going to be done, that next to you
David Schaich (he): our results relating the work to integral. Okay. the change in the volume.
David Schaich (he): And with this constant for you, if we change the temperature of the gas.
David Schaich (he): recall that
David Schaich (he): the expression we derived from the internal energy. Whether or not the particles in this ideal gas, or distinguishable
David Schaich (he): that control energy.
David Schaich (he): it's 3 halves. It's another. Probably those times the temperature. If we change the temperature by some
David Schaich (he): you're going to test all about it. This gives us
David Schaich (he): you change in the internal energy
David Schaich (he): 3,000 time that change in temperature. and
David Schaich (he): gives us a way to
David Schaich (he): get the non-work contributions to the changing
David Schaich (he): energy. One that aspect of this. Yes.
David Schaich (he): there was just a brief comment. And I. You know we're debating about. Raise this issue yesterday or not
David Schaich (he): not for you.
David Schaich (he): but useful to understand what's going on in this context of applications of the
David Schaich (he): you may well object in your mind. Yes.
David Schaich (he): the starting point of all these analyses is
in particular
David Schaich (he): realization of statistical
David Schaich (he): demands. A fixed temperature as a starting point for analysis.
David Schaich (he): So what does it mean to change the temperature and analyzing things in the context of
David Schaich (he): So this.
David Schaich (he): if we go through it carefully, turns out not to be an issue.
David Schaich (he): It does mean that the process of going through things carefully.
David Schaich (he): so
David Schaich (he): terms of language that will be easier just to
David Schaich (he): take you to give it, and then talk in terms of changing the temperature in the canonical ensemble. What we're really doing is.
David Schaich (he): consider right here.
David Schaich (he): Different canonical systems with
David Schaich (he): different temperatures.
David Schaich (he): Each of these
David Schaich (he): it's going to be in that
David Schaich (he): he always assume this module
in the canonical approach
David Schaich (he): The temperature is fixed by
David Schaich (he): yeah
David Schaich (he): reservoir.
David Schaich (he): So I,
David Schaich (he): moving from one canonical system in contact with
David Schaich (he): a particular thermal reservoir. It's an initial temperature to a different canonical system in contact with a different
your final temperature.
David Schaich (he): You can realize It's changing temperature
David Schaich (he): in your way that he's allowed by the the fires you fixed temperature at the start of the point.
David Schaich (he): and with this
David Schaich (he): conceptually understood. Then we don't have to talk about the process of
David Schaich (he): fixing the the final temperature, fixing the initial temperature.
David Schaich (he): We can just talk about changing the temperature. Keep in mind that
David Schaich (he): this is the blue is what we mean. If we speak about it.
David Schaich (he): it's faster and easier to say.
David Schaich (he): And this is what happens, going from
initial temperature to the final temperature.
David Schaich (he): So is that
David Schaich (he): nothing in confusion or possibly
potential confusion that
David Schaich (he): the way we are able to change the temperature. We're talking about canonical systems.
David Schaich (he): You don't see entirely happy
David Schaich (he): the
David Schaich (he): Yeah. This. So 3 over 2 will be actually encountered this time last week.
David Schaich (he): Hey, how we doing that?
David Schaich (he): This is a reminder.
David Schaich (he): So this is coming from the derivative of the helpful free energy for an ideal gas.
David Schaich (he): Let's see this yesterday. Here is
David Schaich (he): last week
David Schaich (he): for you an aspect of this looks.
David Schaich (he): I know you're from last week that
David Schaich (he): the internal energy of the gas here indistinguishable particles.
I guess so
David Schaich (he): is this
David Schaich (he): and perspective, the temperature. this 3 houses coming from
pretty much power of the temperature related to that.
David Schaich (he): So everything else is independent of the temperature, it comes up
David Schaich (he): that fairly simple result which actually turns out to be the same for the
David Schaich (he): so
David Schaich (he): that that's too
David Schaich (he): remind you where that 3 have came from. There we say
David Schaich (he): question here.
David Schaich (he): Yeah, there is that
David Schaich (he): attendance code. Briefly. 7 3 6,
David Schaich (he): 1, 2 like 7.
David Schaich (he): And
David Schaich (he): if that was the main question about. I was going through about formal way of thinking about.
David Schaich (he): You can charge ahead
David Schaich (he): and
David Schaich (he): and the page to get back to
David Schaich (he): the simple way of talking.
David Schaich (he): So we had you change the internal energy. 3 halves. and from last week the Times, the change in the temperature. And because
David Schaich (he): this is a contribution to
David Schaich (he): the energy that is not coming from the work. and because the work correspond to
David Schaich (he): enforcing concepts. Entropy.
David Schaich (he): i'm. Taking the derivative, with respect to the volume.
David Schaich (he): We can expect this to require
David Schaich (he): in corresponding change
David Schaich (he): in the entrepreneur
David Schaich (he): of our system.
David Schaich (he): And this change in entropy is the reason there's not caught in that constant entropy derivative. That gave us the work.
David Schaich (he): So what we
David Schaich (he): the call with the
David Schaich (he): entropy is.
David Schaich (he): and the
David Schaich (he): or both. You could express this in the form. Okay? And yeah.
David Schaich (he): plus about you.
David Schaich (he): temperature, independent pieces that differ
David Schaich (he): depending on whether the partners in the gas are at the
David Schaich (he): Oh, the temperature is hiding in that term that will relate that will be wavelength
which
David Schaich (he): disproportionate to you one over the square root of the temperature.
David Schaich (he): So this here
David Schaich (he): that minus 3. This becomes
David Schaich (he): same.
David Schaich (he): We have
what we were seeing earlier
David Schaich (he): temperature, independent stuff to the site.
David Schaich (he): and then consider it
David Schaich (he): what change in this entropy we should expect to result
David Schaich (he): from expected, of course, all to this sort of change in the temperature. from
David Schaich (he): moving from one canonical system to the next at different temperatures. So
David Schaich (he): this change is going to be the change
David Schaich (he): if we have, and it's
David Schaich (he): over to here from the
David Schaich (he): differentiation of that one on the differential. it all there, and because 3 half, and she is the energy. This is you change
David Schaich (he): in that internal energy divided by the temperature.
David Schaich (he): Yeah.
David Schaich (he): rearranging you now have a new expression for the change in
David Schaich (he): the internal energy.
David Schaich (he): Let's see.
Yeah.
David Schaich (he): is just the temperature of times, the change in the entropy.
David Schaich (he): And this he is. Yeah, it's an additional contribution
David Schaich (he): constant volume, so that there's no work, and also a constant number of particles. As usual. you define this
David Schaich (he): to the
David Schaich (he): that is transferred.
David Schaich (he): transferred between the system and the surroundings of the use.
David Schaich (he): What is the simple queue? The heat exchange is
David Schaich (he): temperature, times, the change in the entropy of the gas.
David Schaich (he): which we can again generalize
David Schaich (he): to the integral from some initial entropy.
David Schaich (he): Oh. T. Ds.
David Schaich (he): That temperature they will depend on the entropy
David Schaich (he): on your cell. I'm. Assuming here that
David Schaich (he): as a function of temperature in the canonical ensemble. or you have
David Schaich (he): that we had a favor, is
David Schaich (he): which is
David Schaich (he): going to be the case for all of these ideal, all interacting systems, the only time this could become problematic is the presence of what a couple of things transition something we will get to after the
David Schaich (he): spring break later on in this term.
David Schaich (he): So
David Schaich (he): there is one more conceptual order to make That's
David Schaich (he): heat and work. So
David Schaich (he): in this context with no work.
David Schaich (he): and they change. The internal interview is just given by the.
David Schaich (he): And maybe I should have said earlier on, when introducing these changes in
David Schaich (he): energy. In the first place. good help you.
David Schaich (he): The energy and entropy are not being created with a stroll. What's going on is
David Schaich (he): shift it.
David Schaich (he): The queen
David Schaich (he): system, the ideal gas particles that we're considering, and that surrounding that was fixing his temperature.
David Schaich (he): I'll say that energy and interview are flowing.
David Schaich (he): and your 2 work problem, your system in exchange with these surroundings. and I will also
David Schaich (he): say that all we're going to consider here are cases in which this energy, electricity, flow
David Schaich (he): is reversible, so that the full amount of entropy in the combined system awesome surroundings is
David Schaich (he): not.
David Schaich (he): in addition to the energy not changing in accordance with the first of all to one dynamics.
David Schaich (he): the overall entropy of the universe.
David Schaich (he): You can see them is not being changed by it.
David Schaich (he): Any of these processes that are shifting energy back and forth
David Schaich (he): in the system.
David Schaich (he): So
David Schaich (he): before I go on further, this might be good place to check in. See if there any questions about
David Schaich (he): definition of he as I was to work with.
Yeah.
David Schaich (he): they fit together.
David Schaich (he): not seeing any.
David Schaich (he): We'll define one more piece of terminology.
David Schaich (he): So. just having said that we will
David Schaich (he): assume reversible processes where
David Schaich (he): no entropy is.
David Schaich (he): I've created
David Schaich (he): through this stuff
David Schaich (he): to the manipulations that we are doing to our ideal system.
David Schaich (he): We call it
David Schaich (he): that
David Schaich (he): it is possible to consider cases in which
David Schaich (he): there is no heat transfer, but the overall amount of energy in this compile system and surroundings
David Schaich (he): is increasing.
David Schaich (he): So there are 2
David Schaich (he): different pieces of terminology, one of which we've already encountered
David Schaich (he): yesterday, or possibly last week, so we can recall that
David Schaich (he): we talked about is in there processes. Yes. leave the amount of entropy. Be cool.
David Schaich (he): so they have.
David Schaich (he): We change the entropy of being 0,
David Schaich (he): and necessarily then lead to
David Schaich (he): no heat being exchanged between the system and the 3 on this
David Schaich (he): more generally.
David Schaich (he): What are you?
David Schaich (he): Have processes with? No, you transfer
David Schaich (he): so Q. Equals to 0.
David Schaich (he): It's possible to have no key transfer with creation of entropy.
David Schaich (he): The process is not necessarily isentropic.
David Schaich (he): Let me see
David Schaich (he): that the process.
David Schaich (he): There's no heat transfer that is.
David Schaich (he): we're
David Schaich (he): things and tropical processes
David Schaich (he): and reversible. So our assumption that we're only going to be talking about the
David Schaich (he): in this module means that we can use Adiabatic and isotropic interchangeably.
David Schaich (he): especially if you
David Schaich (he): look into some of the other.
David Schaich (he): It's good to keep in mind that there is this distinction between them. that's all.
and trouble processes
David Schaich (he): in addition to any of the
David Schaich (he): if we think about
David Schaich (he): actually carrying out physical experiments that carry out this sort of process with no transfer.
David Schaich (he): we talked earlier in the context of the microeconomic on something about how difficult it is in practice
David Schaich (he): to
David Schaich (he): prevent heat exchange for the isolate system, so that the micro canonical ensemble applies
David Schaich (he): the way to carry out a process so that no keep in exchange between the system and the surroundings
David Schaich (he): is to make sure that's
David Schaich (he): the process occurs
David Schaich (he): quickly enough. so there's not time for any energy to be exchanged in this form of heat. So an idiomatic process in general is one that occurs quickly.
David Schaich (he): No time for
David Schaich (he): this sort of heat exchange
David Schaich (he): to actually occur
David Schaich (he): the other extreme. We have
David Schaich (he): very slow processes.
David Schaich (he): This
David Schaich (he): you'll allow all possible heat exchange to be accomplished.
David Schaich (he): and what this heat exchange does in the context of the canonical ensemble is keep the temperature.
David Schaich (he): I'll be here. System of the ideal gas
David Schaich (he): in equilibrium with this external reservoir
David Schaich (he): in the report fixed.
David Schaich (he): Yes. it's starting Value
David Schaich (he): fancy term for these sorts of processes
David Schaich (he): use for the next. We because we go through through dynamic cycles. That this is an is a thermal process
David Schaich (he): just like is in tropic. We have.
David Schaich (he): I saw it meeting equal. all right.
The temperature
David Schaich (he): and it In real physics experience real processes are going to live
David Schaich (he): in between these 2 extremes of
David Schaich (he): past idiomatic offices and slow
David Schaich (he): I some thermal ones, but usually
David Schaich (he): things that we do day to day
David Schaich (he): happen to be carried out quickly enough. They are closer to you. Do that.
David Schaich (he): then.
David Schaich (he): So
David Schaich (he): that was a bit of terminology that will be useful. As for you. go on to do more interesting things with this. So we know. put together all that we have in terms of ways for
David Schaich (he): energy
David Schaich (he): ideal. You get us to change both due to work and you to heat exchange.
David Schaich (he): It will be useful to
David Schaich (he): first to do that in aversion
David Schaich (he): you mentioned. So rather than talking about the entropy as a function of Yeah, and the temperature of the volume
David Schaich (he): temperature as a function of
David Schaich (he): just
David Schaich (he): fix the number of particles, as usual, for the worry about anything
David Schaich (he): non-trivial happening on that side of things. So
David Schaich (he): with this change of variables, the internal energy
David Schaich (he): use
David Schaich (he): no longer a function of temperature
David Schaich (he): that turns into one. Okay.
David Schaich (he): And if we you able to expand
David Schaich (he): the change in internal
David Schaich (he): yes.
David Schaich (he): the internal energy at the end of that change. It's something i'm sure it value of Yes, and entropy and volume it's going to be equal to.
David Schaich (he): That's not
David Schaich (he): plus scale expansion in each of these Independent. That's my that's not times derivative of that internal energy. With respect
David Schaich (he): to S.
David Schaich (he): The responsibility. energy to the interview next.
David Schaich (he): and then with higher order, terms that we can neglect if we
David Schaich (he): focus on infinitesimal changes. So moving
David Schaich (he): you, starting, going to the other side.
David Schaich (he): rub it.
David Schaich (he): The energy at the end of the process, and this the energy at the beginning being just the symptoms of change, the energy
David Schaich (he): and change in the entropy we will also make, even if accessible.
we can
David Schaich (he): recall that we're back working in terms of energy and attribute. Yes. micro canonical relation
David Schaich (he): between entropy and energy with a fixed particle number.
David Schaich (he): It's just related to one over the temperature. So inverting it that relation and considering the response of the energy, yeah. with respect to the change in the entropy
David Schaich (he): just gives us the inverse of the inverse temperature of the temperature itself.
David Schaich (he): The final term.
David Schaich (he): It's an accessible change in all of you.
David Schaich (he): Multiply by precisely yeah response to the energy and a fixed entropy that we defined to be the pressure. We come up with a
David Schaich (he): very simple expression for
David Schaich (he): the general change in internal energy
David Schaich (he): you have to make it.
The assumptions out
David Schaich (he): volume is fixed when the interview is fixed.
David Schaich (he): Anything else. There are 2 Chinese
David Schaich (he): Tdf. Minus Pdd: so temperature times change in entropy.
David Schaich (he): This pressure has changed
David Schaich (he): which are exactly Oh, yeah.
David Schaich (he): have to find earlier today to be the heat
David Schaich (he): and the work. So this relation, in fact, is a
David Schaich (he): generalization
David Schaich (he): of the first law. Let's go, and we can expressing words say that
David Schaich (he): right? So when we introduced the first one we just said it was calculated conservation. There you're working with the
David Schaich (he): if the energy is fixed.
David Schaich (he): This is generalizing that to economical ensemble, where energy can be exchanged between the system and the surroundings.
David Schaich (he): The any such change.
David Schaich (he): the systems, internal energy.
22.
David Schaich (he): This equation must be matched
David Schaich (he): by a corresponding transfer of he.
David Schaich (he): So a heat exchange.
David Schaich (he): Yeah.
David Schaich (he): As they're on the surroundings
on the system.
David Schaich (he): we're both.
David Schaich (he): So the conservation of energy is now generalized to allow the energy in the system to change
David Schaich (he): diversity of the 2 ways. We've introduced changing energy. Okay. moving a shift to energy around in between the system and its
David Schaich (he): so. This generalized first law is
David Schaich (he): key equations for ideal gases.
David Schaich (he): Now begin not applying to
David Schaich (he): systems of dynamic cycles, key engines and refrigerators.
David Schaich (he): Yes, equation. So it joins.
David Schaich (he): So people's keep plus work
David Schaich (he): is one key equation
David Schaich (he): relation between internal energy and temperature. The fact that the entropy is always proportionable. Too bad
David Schaich (he): Volume times T to the 3 half power.
David Schaich (he): which means that
David Schaich (he): the condition of Council of Entropy that is relevant for determining the work
David Schaich (he): from the pressure is going to require just keeping this particular combination of temperature and volume constant. you don't have to.
What about
David Schaich (he): the other pieces of the
David Schaich (he): one of these? And finally, we have the
David Schaich (he): equation of things
David Schaich (he): that relates all 4 of these macroscopic, or through dynamic quantities, pressure of all the
David Schaich (he): particle number and temperature
David Schaich (he): and
David Schaich (he): 4 equations pretty small.
David Schaich (he): I the question of 6
David Schaich (he): and result for energy and entropy
David Schaich (he): are going to
David Schaich (he): thermodynamic systems behavior when we carry out any possible manipulations of.
David Schaich (he): So we started all
David Schaich (he): discussion, or he's in work by thinking about
David Schaich (he): applying a force to change the volume of the gas. You can't do that. either decreasing the volume. Pushing this piston in to the container, we can pull the piston out, increase the volume
David Schaich (he): in both directions. You can go quickly, make an Adiabatic process, or you can go slowly and keep things isothermal.
David Schaich (he): or we can just to fix that
David Schaich (he): and feed them. Huge 5 increase in temperature reservoir around the system. Or you probably take you away. I
David Schaich (he): No.
David Schaich (he): All of those processes and generalizations help them
things that we can imagine
David Schaich (he): doing to an ideal gas. and as we do them. Applying
David Schaich (he): this set of equations, these key equations will
David Schaich (he): tell us how that gas behaves and give us that. Now
predictions
David Schaich (he): for
David Schaich (he): how that
David Schaich (he): on the behavior of the large scale to dynamic companies. All that gas
captured mathematically.
David Schaich (he): It will be particularly
David Schaich (he): interested in. carry out some sequence
David Schaich (he): of manipulations for
David Schaich (he): these sorts of processes and changing the gas
David Schaich (he): That's after we carry out this full sequence. we take end up with the ideal gas system back in its initial
David Schaich (he): States in particular.
David Schaich (he): through a dynamic State or Macro State, rather than the micro State. That depends on it. the disposition of every single particle
David Schaich (he): in the gas. So this macro stages
David Schaich (he): characterized by it. This macroscopic quality is like pressure, flowing temperature, internal energy.
David Schaich (he): Such a sequence
David Schaich (he): that gets back to the starting point is.
David Schaich (he): I should
David Schaich (he): use the same terminology as
David Schaich (he): cycle
David Schaich (he): repeated it.
David Schaich (he): Arbitrary number of in order to do things like
David Schaich (he): move energy around, to do work. How many environments or you work to
David Schaich (he): for one
David Schaich (he): reservoir to another, or generalizations there up.
David Schaich (he): If we have a thermodynamic cycle, some repeatable sequence of these processes that does work
David Schaich (he): defines an engine transfer, he
David Schaich (he): refrigerator. and we will now see
David Schaich (he): how to analyze
David Schaich (he): these sorts of practical devices, like engines and refrigerators on the basis of statistical physics.
David Schaich (he): I think there's
David Schaich (he): just enough time to introduce one useful tool
David Schaich (he): in those sorts of analyses.
David Schaich (he): so
we space here to do so.
David Schaich (he): So because we have
David Schaich (he): fixed number of particles.
David Schaich (he): All right. Equations.
Why, yes.
David Schaich (he): all information about it.
David Schaich (he): Dynamic macro stage
David Schaich (he): is
David Schaich (he): provided
David Schaich (he): in terms of 2 variables
David Schaich (he): which we can't choose
David Schaich (he): to be the pressure and the volume
David Schaich (he): from the I do guess Well.
David Schaich (he): temperature in terms of
David Schaich (he): the internal energy is that
David Schaich (he): we have 10 times the temperature over. We have. I was pressured and boarding from the ideal gas law and the the Times.
David Schaich (he): This team we some power of 3 halves.
David Schaich (he): so a useful tool
David Schaich (he): he is representing that.
David Schaich (he): hey?
David Schaich (he): I was really Macro State
David Schaich (he): is your point. my plane.
David Schaich (he): one axis of the planes, the pressure.
David Schaich (he): and the other.
David Schaich (he): So
David Schaich (he): this defines what is known as a pressure volume. diagram
David Schaich (he): the plane volume, one access pressure on the other. any given macro states.
David Schaich (he): And if we carry out any of the processes that we described.
David Schaich (he): Those will respond to you lines
David Schaich (he): in this diagram. and if we connect a sequence of those processes together to
David Schaich (he): complete one of those repeatable cycles over and over again. The it has to correspond
David Schaich (he): to a close path. So we have some sequence of processes
David Schaich (he): just going down there, up there.
David Schaich (he): around and over. I think it's the system back
David Schaich (he): exactly to its initial state.
David Schaich (he): This is defining a sequence of processes and microstates at the end of each call that gets back around to the starting point.
David Schaich (he): and can be repeated. not occurring a number of times
David Schaich (he): for this purposes of running a mentioned on the refrigerator, and so on.
David Schaich (he): So we will
David Schaich (he): next week. We have examples of
David Schaich (he): particular processes and cycles in terms of these.
David Schaich (he): and see how the mathematics of the cycle, of course.
on to
David Schaich (he): this visual representation there of
David Schaich (he): and before then tomorrow, tomorrow, Thursday morning.
David Schaich (he): Step back just a bit to looking more like that mixing entropy, and also for over
David Schaich (he): topics we discussed in last week's tutorial. That was on the entropy that came up yesterday
David Schaich (he): as well as
David Schaich (he): and even before that tomorrow I should be
David Schaich (he): through marking the remaining computer project submission. So it'll get back to you on the
David Schaich (he): a couple of left, so it'll just take me a few more hours over the next.
David Schaich (he): Yeah, so
David Schaich (he): i'll do that after I get that back to you
with that
David Schaich (he): questions before I' you to enjoy the rest of your afternoon get back to you
David Schaich (he): to work on that market.
David Schaich (he): I want to see you
David Schaich (he): Thursday morning when a tutorial, and then next week, for
David Schaich (he): it's still a dynamic.
David Schaich (he): There, you see.